.\" Copyright (C) 2022 Michael Herstine <sp1ff@pobox.com>
.\" You may distribute this file under the terms of the GNU Free
.\" Documentation License.
.TH pin 1 2022-09-02 "pin 0.2.0" "pin Manual"
.SH NAME
pin send \- Send one ore more URLs to Pinboard as well as, optionally,
Instapaper.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "pin send"
[-h|--help]
.RS 8
.br
[-i, --with-instapaper] [-p PASSWD|--password=PASSWD] [-u USER|--user=USER]
.br
[-t TARGET|--target=TARGET]
.br
[-R, --read-later]
.br
[-t TAG|--tag=TAG]
.br
[-T TITLE|--title=TITLE]
.br
LINK...
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION

Send one or more links to Pinboard as well as, optionally, Instapaper.
Arguments may be given in one of two ways. The first is simply the
URL, in which case the title will be taken from the -T option (which
must be provided, in this case; it is illegal to send a link with no
title). The other is to give an argument of the form "URL | TITLE" in
which case the TITLE given in this argument will be preferred to the
-T option.

.SH OPTIONS

.PP
\-h
.RS 4
Print a brief usage message on
.I stdout
& exit with status zero.
.RE
.PP
\-\-help
.RS 4
Display more detailed help.
.RE
.PP
[-i|--with-instapaper]
.RS 4
Send these links to Instapaper as well as Pinboard.
.RE
.PP
[-u USERNAME|--username=USERNAME]
.RS 4
Instapaper username. You can also specify your Instapaper username
in your configuration file, as well as in the environment variable
.I INSTAPAPER_USERNAME
.RE
.PP
[-p PASSWORD|--password=PASSWORD]
.RS 4
Instapaper password. You can also specify your Instapaper password
in your configuration file, as well as in the environment variable
.I INSTAPAPER_PASSWORD
.RE
.PP
[-r TARGET|--target=TARGET]
.RS 4
Specify a "target" for these links. A target is a combination of tags,
whether or not they should be marked to "read later", and whether or
not they should also be sent to Instapaper. See the Info manual for
details on how to configure targets for your links.
.RE
.PP
[-R, --read-later]
.RS 4
Flag all given posts as "to be read later" on Pinboard.
.RE
.PP
[-t TAG, --tag=TAG]
.RS 4
Speciy a tag to for the given links. Tags must be
fewer than 256 characters in length, and may not contain commas or
whitespace. Tags that begin with a period are private.
.RE
.PP
[-T TITLE, --title=TITLE]
.RS 4
Specify the "title" or "description" for all given links on
Pinboard. Each link must have a title. When giving more than one link,
it likely makes more sense to give the titles with the links as "URL |
TITLE".
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
.B pin
is written & maintained by Michael Herstine <sp1ff@pobox.com>. It
is maintained at https://github.com/sp1ff/pin.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR pin "(1), " pin-delete "(1), " pin-rename-tag "(1), " pin-send "(1)"
