.\" Copyright (C) 2022-2025 Michael Herstine <sp1ff@pobox.com>
.\" You may distribute this file under the terms of the GNU Free
.\" Documentation License.
.TH pin 1 2023-05-06 "pin 0.2.8" "pin Manual"
.SH NAME
pin \- Manage your Pinboard links

.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B pin
[-h|--help] [-V|--version]
.RS 8
.br
[-c FILE]
.br
[-d|--debug] [-v|--verbose] [-q|--quiet]
.br
[<sub-command> <args>]
.RE

.B pin
implements the following sub-commands:
.IP
.BR pin-delete (1)
.RS 8
.B pin delete
will delete one or more links as specified either by URL or tag(s).
.RE
.IP
.BR pin-get-tags (1)
.RS 8
.B pin get-tags
will fetch all one's tags along with their use count & print them to
.I stdout
.RE
.IP
.BR pin-rename-tag (1)
.RS 8
.B pin rename-tag
will rename a tag.
.RE
.IP
.BR pin-send (1)
.RS 8
.B pin send
will send one or more URLs to Pinboard. Each URL can be titled,
tagged, marked as to be "read later" and/or also sent to Instapaper.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR pin
is a small utility for managing your Pinboard links. It is by no means
complete; it supports a few operations which the author has found
useful. The complete list of sub-commands may be found above. Each
sub-command takes the `--help` option for details on its usage. HTML
documentation for the Rust crate may be found at
https://docs.rs/pin/latest/pin/. User documentation may be found at
https://www.unwoundstack.com/doc/pin/curr. If you installed `pin` from
the source distribution, you can also say `info pin` to read the
documentation in your Info viewer.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\-h
.RS 4
Print a short usage message on
.I stdout
& exit with status zero.
.RE
.PP
\-\-help
.RS 4
Print a lengthier usage message on
.I stdout
& exit with status zero.
.RE
.PP
\-V, \-\-version
.RS 4
Print the
.B pin
version on
.I stdout
and exit with status zero.
.RE
.PP
\-c FILE
.RS 4
Specify an alternative location for the
.B pin
configuration file ($HOME/.pin is used by default).
.RE
.PP
\-d, \-\-debug
.RS 4
Produce copious output intended for debugging.
.RE
.PP
\-v, \-\-verbose
.RS 4
Produce more verbose output.
.RE
.PP
\-q, \-\-quiet
.RS 4
Produce no output other than error messages.
.RE

.SH AUTHOR

.B pin
is written & maintained by Michael Herstine <sp1ff@pobox.com>. It
is maintained at https://github.com/sp1ff/pin.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR pin-delete "(1), " pin-get-tags "(1), " pin-rename-tag "(1), " pin-send "(1)"
